README.md, before:


# itinerum-tripkit-cli

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.6%7C3.7-blue.svg?style=flat-square)]()

The `itinerum-tripkit-cli` makes using the `itinerum-tripkit` library fast and simple:

1. Create an `./input` and `./output` directory. Copy source .csv data to `./input`.
2. Edit a `config.py` file with data filepaths and trip processing parameters.
3. Run the tripkit command-line tool*:
	```bash
	$ pip install itinerum-tripkit-cli
	$ tripkit-cli -v -c config.py
	```

*On Windows, GDAL and Fiona dependencies are required. These easiest way to install these packages is to download [pre-compiled versions](https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/):
	- GDAL: https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#gdal
	- Fiona: https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#fiona

	```bash
	$ pip install .\GDAL-3.0.2-cp37-cp37m-win_amd64.whl
	$ pip install .\Fiona-1.8.11-cp37-cp37m-win_amd64.whl
	```

## Quick comands
*Show help:*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli --help
```

*Increase logging verbosity:*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli -v   # verbose
$ tripkit-cli -vv  # very verbose
```

*Supply config:*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli -c config.py
```

## Config
*Sample config:*

```python
SURVEY_NAME = 'itinerum_survey'

# path of raw data directory exported from Itinerum platform or Qstarz
INPUT_DATA_DIR = './input/csv-data-dir'
# types: "itinerum" or "qstarz"
INPUT_DATA_TYPE = 'itinerum'

# path of export data from itinerum-cli
OUTPUT_DATA_DIR = './output'

# path of subway station entrances .csv for trip detection
SUBWAY_STATIONS_FP = './input/subway_stations/stations.csv'

# trip detection parameters
TRIP_DETECTION_BREAK_INTERVAL_SECONDS = 300
TRIP_DETECTION_SUBWAY_BUFFER_METERS = 300
TRIP_DETECTION_COLD_START_DISTANCE_METERS = 750
TRIP_DETECTION_ACCURACY_CUTOFF_METERS = 50

# timezone of study area for calculating complete trip days
TIMEZONE = 'America/Montreal'

# semantic location radius for activity dwell tallies
SEMANTIC_LOCATION_PROXIMITY_METERS = 50

# OSRM map matcher API URLs
MAP_MATCHING_BIKING_API_URL = 'https://osrm.server.com/match/v1/biking/'
MAP_MATCHING_DRIVING_API_URL = 'https://osrm.server.com/match/v1/driving/'
MAP_MATCHING_WALKING_API_URL = 'https://osrm.server.com/match/v1/walking/'
```

Commit message:

Added shapefile outputs; updated default verbosity; incremented cli release version and dependency tripkit version

README.md, after:


# itinerum-tripkit-cli

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.6%7C3.7-blue.svg?style=flat-square)]()

The `itinerum-tripkit-cli` makes using the `itinerum-tripkit` library fast and simple:

1. Create an `./input` and `./output` directory. Copy source .csv data to `./input`.
2. Edit a `config.py` file with data filepaths and trip processing parameters.
3. Run the tripkit command-line tool*:
	```bash
	$ pip install itinerum-tripkit-cli
	$ tripkit-cli -c config.py
	```

*On Windows, GDAL and Fiona dependencies are required. These easiest way to install these packages is to first download and install the [Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2015](https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/download/details.aspx?id=48145). Once available, [compiled versions](https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/) can be installed with Python's `pip`:
	- GDAL: https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#gdal
	- Fiona: https://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#fiona

	```bash
	$ pip install .\GDAL-3.0.2-cp37-cp37m-win_amd64.whl
	$ pip install .\Fiona-1.8.13-cp37-cp37m-win_amd64.whl
	```

## Quick comands
*Show help:*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli --help
```

*Logging verbosity:*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli -q  # quiet (no output messages)
$ tripkit-cli -v  # verbose
```

*Supply config:*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli -c config.py
```

*Write GIS data outputs*
```bash
$ tripkit-cli
```

## Config
*Sample config:*

```python
##
## itinerum-tripkit configuration
##
SURVEY_NAME = 'itinerum_survey'

# path of raw data directory exported from Itinerum platform or Qstarz
INPUT_DATA_DIR = './input/csv-data-dir'
# types: "itinerum" or "qstarz"
INPUT_DATA_TYPE = 'itinerum'

# path of export data from itinerum-cli
OUTPUT_DATA_DIR = './output'

# path of subway station entrances .csv for trip detection
SUBWAY_STATIONS_FP = './input/subway_stations/stations.csv'

# trip detection parameters
TRIP_DETECTION_BREAK_INTERVAL_SECONDS = 300
TRIP_DETECTION_SUBWAY_BUFFER_METERS = 300
TRIP_DETECTION_COLD_START_DISTANCE_METERS = 750
TRIP_DETECTION_ACCURACY_CUTOFF_METERS = 50

# timezone of study area for calculating complete trip days
TIMEZONE = 'America/Montreal'

# semantic location radius for activity dwell tallies
ACTIVITY_LOCATION_PROXIMITY_METERS = 50

# OSRM map matcher API URLs
MAP_MATCHING_BIKING_API_URL = 'https://osrm.server.com/match/v1/biking/'
MAP_MATCHING_DRIVING_API_URL = 'https://osrm.server.com/match/v1/driving/'
MAP_MATCHING_WALKING_API_URL = 'https://osrm.server.com/match/v1/walking/'

##
## itinerum-tripkit-cli configuration
##
# GIS output formats: shp (shapefile), gpkg (geopackage), geojson
GIS_OUTPUT_FORMAT = 'shp'

```
